The Project Gutenberg EBook of When You Giffle, by L.J. Stecher

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: When You Giffle

Author: L.J. Stecher

Illustrator: Bruno

Release Date: September 12, 2016 [EBook #53035]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHEN YOU GIFFLE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          WHEN YOU GIFFLE...

                         BY L. J. STECHER, JR.

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Worlds of Tomorrow December 1963
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




            They were like any other boys sporting in their
              old swimming hole--in the depths of space!


I was a little bit worried when I saw Captain Hannah again. I thought
he might have decided he wanted his elephants back, and I'd grown sort
of attached to them. Although I couldn't break the baby of the habit of
nibbling on Gasha leaves, in spite of the fact that they're not good
for him.

A few months earlier, Captain Hannah had conned me into taking the
elephants off his hands and out of his tramp spaceship. He had suffered
from intellectual terrestrial zoological insufficiency--or in other
words, he hadn't known whales are mammals, and had delivered the
multi-ton Beulah instead, to the Prinkip of Penguin, as an adult sample
of Earth's largest mammal.

The Prinkip had quite properly refused delivery, and Hannah had stuck
me with her and her incipient progeny.

I needn't have worried. Captain Hannah didn't want her back. He just
wanted to relax and talk to someone. I bought him a drink, but I
refused one myself, remembering what had happened to me the times
before, when I had listened to Captain Hannah with a glass in my hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Hannah ran a leathery hand over his leathery face. He looked
haggard. "I came here because I've got to talk to somebody," he said,
"and you make a good listener.

"Do you remember after I completed my contract with you for the
delivery of the gasha root, and after you had talked me into leaving
Beulah with you for the sake of the little one, how we had a few drinks
together to celebrate our mutual success, before I headed out?"

Well, my memory about who had talked whom into what about Beulah didn't
agree with his, but I told him I remembered our last get-together, and
he went on.

"Anyone who tries to set up an interstellar Jump with a hangover should
be permanently barred from the spaceways," he said with some feeling.
"I guess that the only reason they aren't, is that the ones who make a
mistake are never heard from again." He paused and sipped. "Except me."

"When I left you that last time, and pushed _Delta Crucis_ up into
parking orbit, I was full of rhial and a grim determination to deliver
a whale to the Prinkip. I must have made some mistake or other in
setting up the Jump coordinates, because when I popped out of Limbo,
alarm bells went off in all directions. The main computer told me it
didn't have the faintest idea where we had arrived, and the auxiliary
computer agreed noisily. I turned off the alarms and uncovered the
viewports to check for myself, without much hope.

"The view from the ones on the starboard side didn't show me anything I
recognized, so I pushed myself across the room and slid off the covers
on the port side.

"The stars there were unfamiliar, too, but I'm afraid that I didn't
notice for awhile. The foreground was taking up all of my attention.
There were two towheaded kids--about eight or nine years old, I should
judge--floating in empty space, with their noses flattened against
the viewport glass. They were as brown as berries, and as naked as
jaybirds, and as cute as chipmunks, and as alike as two peas, and as
improbable as virtue.

"The one on the left--my left, that is--backed off enough so that his
nose straightened out, smiled angelically and asked politely whether he
and his twin brother might come in. That is, his lips moved and I heard
the words, and they made sense. Only they didn't. Nothing made sense
when somebody talking in a vacuum could be heard as if he were right
beside you. Anyway, I nodded that they could come in.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The two boys swam forward, using a sort of self-taught kind of a
breast stroke, right through the solid glass of the viewport, until
they were in the ship beside me, and then they stood up. That's no
small feat in itself, standing up in a spaceship in the absence of
gravity or spin."

Captain Hannah beckoned the waiter for a refill, and then asked me if I
wouldn't change my mind and drink with him. The way this story of his
was going, I figured I might as well, and he didn't start in talking
again until we had both had a sip.

"They were skinny, and they looked explosively energetic, the way kids
that age usually do. But they just stood quietly facing me side by
side, giving out with cheerful gaptoothed small-boy smiles. Somehow or
other it was reassuring to notice that they both had belly buttons.
It was an indication to me--whether it made sense or not--that they
were just human beings; that they had been born of women in the usual
way--and that there must be some rational explanation for what looked
like miracles.

"'Is there anything I can do for you two kids?' I asked, as politely as
I knew how.

"'Well, sir,' said the one who had spoken before, 'please excuse us for
barging in on you like this, with no clothes on and all....'

"The other boy picked up the conversation without a break, 'but you
have materialized your spaceship right in the middle of our swimming
hole ...'

"'... and it's muddying everything up something fierce,' finished boy
number one.

"I glanced out through the view ports at the illimitable and
untrammeled reaches of space, and then back at the boys.

"'We're afraid you'll just have to take our word for it, sir. This is
our swimming hole,' said boy number one earnestly. 'There aren't
many ...'

"'... spots like this in space,' number two picked up. 'It has
something to do with gravity balances and radiation zones and
thought-energy sumps and a lot of other ...'

"'... things like that that we don't understand either because we
haven't had it in school yet. But we do know that it's the best place
we can reach for space swimming, only ...'

"'... it's too far for us to get to and pull along our clothes too.
Besides which, what boy would want to go swimming with his clothes on
anyway?' They both came to a full stop.

"'The only thing wrong with it,' the speaker had shifted again, 'is,
it's even too far to bring along any sandwiches and cookies and stuff.'

"I stopped swinging my head back and forth from one to the other as the
speaker shifted, and shook myself awake. 'How about some chocolate cake
and a bulb or two of milk? I've got plenty of both,' I told them."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, come now," I said to Captain Hannah, glancing at the row of rhial
beakers in front of him. In spite of his space tan, I could see him
blush.

"Well, I like chocolate cake," he said defensively. "And drinking milk
when I'm in space gets my stomach back in shape for going ashore again
with the likes of you. What's wrong with that, I'd like to know?"

I signified "Nothing at all," with an elaborate gesture, and he went
back to his story after dipping his nose.

"Well, I gave each of them some cake and milk, and they sat down
politely at my table to eat it ... and the plates stayed on the table
and the cake stayed on the plates even though there wasn't any gravity
and I didn't have any spin on the ship.

"'Now what's all this about my muddying up your swimming hole?' I
asked, when they had finished eating all my cake and drinking three
bulbs of milk each.

"'That's all there is to it, sir,' said the first boy. 'You have
changed the gravity balance and the radiation pattern and everything
else ...'

"'... and that's taken all the fun out of swimming. And when you have
taken all the chances we have in playing hooky just because this is
such a good place to swim ...'

"'... it's a shame to have it all spoiled. So would you please leave,
sir?'

"'Oh, I'd be glad to Jump out of here, boys,' I told them. 'But you
see, I've got a little problem. I'm lost. I don't have the faintest
idea where in the Universe I am, so how can I set the right coordinates
to Jump somewhere else?'

"'Oh!' said the two boys together. 'We didn't realize....' They
stopped, and looked at each other. They acted as if they were carrying
on an argument although their lips didn't move and I couldn't hear
anything. At any rate, they soon reached some sort of agreement.

"'We'll have to get help,' said the first boy at last. 'We'd call Dad,
except he'd warm both of us real good if he knew we were out here
swimming when we're supposed to be in school. But....'

"'There's our big brother Jim. We've got enough on him so maybe he
won't squeal. And he's grown up enough to know what to do.'

"'And he was real good at narking and giffling in school.'

"'He got an A in narking, and a B plus in giffling, but of course it
wasn't _advanced_ giffling.'

"'Still, he should be able to do the job, all right.'

       *       *       *       *       *

"Their faces went blank and they both stared off into space as if they
were concentrating as hard as they could. Suddenly, with no warning and
no noise, a young man of about fifteen or so was standing beside them
with his hands on his hips. He wore a kilt and a singlet of some soft,
shiny material, but no shoes.

"'Well, if it isn't Mike and Aloysius,' he said conversationally. 'Boy,
are you two going to get it when you show your faces around home. Dad's
been looking for you.'

"'The older boy turned and stuck his hand out at me. 'Captain Hannah,
sir,' he said. 'My name's Jim Monahan. I must apologize for the brats.
They bother everybody. They have asked me to help get you out of your
difficulties.'

"'I must have set the wrong Jump pattern,' I stammered. 'It's
incredibly lucky that I came back out of Limbo in a place where I could
ask for help. If you can give it to me, I would be most grateful.'

"'Well, sir,' said Jim, 'your appearing here isn't quite as incredible
as you might think. Dad says that several of you Bumblejumpers....' He
stopped and looked embarrassed. 'I'm sorry, sir. Several of you who
have made errors in your Jump setting have ended up here.'

"'Not in our swimming hole,' asserted Aloysius.

"'In this general area of space. Dad calls it the delta of a psionic
river. He says that we who are psionic adepts should stop bouncing back
and forth between here and the established sectors so much, or we'll
groove the psionic channels so much that everybody who goofs will end
up here. And we may even increase the probability of goofing.'

"'I just want to get back to where I can recognize the stars,' I told
the boy.

"'If you don't mind my saying so, sir, I nark the impression that you
want something more. Something about getting a whale to the planet
Penguin II?'

       *       *       *       *       *

"I nodded. 'If these kid brothers of yours can run around mald-bottom
in space without catching cold, then I guess you can probably send a
whale from one planet to another by mind power--by psionics.'

"'But that's not really what you want?' the boy persisted.

"I nodded. 'Even psionics can't do what I really want. A _Delta_ class
freighter can do almost anything, but it can't transport an adult blue
whale across space. Still, that's what I really want it to do, and it's
that desire that you are apparently picking out of my mind.'

"Jim frowned for a couple of minutes in deep concentration while Mike
and Aloysius nudged each other slyly, gradually got more rambunctious,
and finally lost their tempers and started a half-wrestling,
half-boxing tussle.

"Jim clapped his hands together sharply, twice. The kids quieted down
abruptly, looking at Jim indignantly and rubbing their posteriors. At
the same time, Jim picked a small box out of the air and handed it to
me with a flamboyant gesture.

"Lettered on the box was the neatly printed instruction 'EAT ME'.

"'Shades of Lewis Carroll,' I said to myself, opening the box and
looking at the little cakes inside.

"'Go ahead, sir,' chorused Mike and Aloysius, 'Don't be chicken!'

"I looked at the pill-sized cakes for a minute. Then I shrugged my
shoulders and tossed them all down at once, like taking a shot of
whiskey neat. For a few seconds nothing happened except for an odd sort
of fizzling feeling inside, and then suddenly I started to shrink, just
like Alice in Wonderland. I hardly had time to notice that the whole
Monahan tribe was shrinking right along with me, before I found that I
was having trouble breathing, and it was as if my insides were trying
to climb up past my Adam's apple. I couldn't talk, so I tried hard to
give Jim Monahan a dirty look before I passed out, which I promptly did.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I couldn't have been unconscious for more than a few seconds. I woke
up to find that I had shrunk to a height of maybe two feet, and that
Jim was looking at me with a very worried expression.

"'Boy, was that a lousy job of giffling,' I heard Aloysius say,
irreverently. At least, it was Aloysius unless the two boys had
exchanged positions while I had been out.

"'Yup, you've got to be careful when you giffle,' agreed his twin
sagely.

"'What happened?' I asked weakly. 'And why have you shrunk us down this
way?'

"'Shrunk us down?' asked Jim blankly, and then he laughed. 'Oh, I
didn't do anything like that to us. That sort of thing is too dangerous
to try unless you're a Master Giffler. I don't think even Dad would
try a thing like that with a human being. All I did was to enlarge the
spaceship. At the same time, of course, I increased the strength of
the intermolecular bonds, so that the ship is just as sturdy as it was
before. Only now it's big enough to carry a whale.'

"'Only the big jerk forgot that with the space in this room suddenly
increased to twenty-five or thirty times as big as it was before, there
still wasn't any more ...'

"'... air in it, so you nearly suffocated.' I think it ended with Mike.

"'But he finally had sense enough to gather the air in a ball around
your head, so you woke up all right, and I nark that now he had brought
in enough air ...'

"'... to fill the room and all your tanks, so you'll be all right now.'

"'And now you can get yourself out of our swimming hole, sir,'
Aloysius, I think, concluded.

"I was still a little dazed. But I tried to put my brain in gear, while
I looked from one smiling, expectant Monahan face to another. 'I've got
one question,' I said at last.

"'Yes, sir?' asked Jim, all eagerness to be helpful.

"'Does this psionic ability all of you are playing around with so
freely make you basically any smarter than an ordinary untalented
run-of-the-mill human of the same age?'

"'Well of course, sir,' said Jim, and then looked at the two brats, who
were staring at him with their mouths open.

"'Well, of course, we have a lot more to learn than the Normals,' he
began again. 'But then, I've studied hard instead of playing hooky like
the imps here.'

"Now all three of us were staring at him.

"'Well, to be truthful, sir, Dad says that we've got about the same
basic intelligence as the Normals, and that we shouldn't try to get
uppity because of our special talents. But most Normals that I've seen
usually don't act very bright.'

"'Then,' I asked with elaborate patience, 'all you did was to make my
_Delta Crucis_ bigger, and to increase the strength of the components
to match? Nothing else?'

       *       *       *       *       *

"Jim nodded warily. 'That's it, sir.'

"'It didn't occur to you, son, that while that might be all right for
the hull and the Jumping equipment, you just don't change the size of
a rocket motor to change its power rating? Don't you realize that if
I turned on my landing rockets right now, I'd probably blow us all to
Kingdom Come?'

"Jim thought for a minute. 'I nark it now, sir,' he said slowly. 'And
the hull probably isn't right too, I'm afraid.'

"'You're probably right, son,' I answered him. 'Don't you think you had
just better put things right back the way they were before?'

"I added hastily, 'Not forgetting to get rid of the extra air you
giffled in.'

"'No, sir. I can't do that!' The boy's forehead was all wrinkled with
his effort at thinking. 'Dad says that when you start in to giffling,
you've got to carry through what you start.'

"'But it's my life you're giffling around with,' I protested. 'You
don't have to worry. _You_ can stay alive in the vacuum of space, or
jump around without a ship, but I can't. Just leave me alone, why don't
you? Just show me the way to go home and then leave me alone, like a
good boy.'

"Jim shook his head. 'I'm just going to have to get help, sir,' he said.

"Mike and Aloysius both looked scared. 'Jim, why don't you just do
like Captain Hannah says,' asked one of them.

"'If you get Dad into this,' said the other, 'he'll for sure give it to
the two of us, but good. And we'll just bet that he won't think you're
too old to get it, either.'

"Jim waved the argument aside. 'He'll probably be right, too,' he
commented absently, acting as if he were listening to something the
rest of us couldn't hear. Then he nodded decisively.

"'Your _Delta Crucis_ is all fixed up right, now, sir,' he told me in
positive tones. 'There's even a tank for you to keep the whale in.
But I suggest you not waste any time in getting the beast to Penguin,
because the ship won't stay this way too long. Then it'll revert to the
way it used to be before you ran into us.'

"He noticed my expression of concentrated unhappiness.

"'Oh, not while you are carrying the blue whale,' he assured me. 'As
soon as you finish the job, or in a couple of months if you don't get
started on it. There is nothing to be worried about, sir.'

"Then he heaved a kind of deep, shuddering sigh, and said, 'We have got
to go now. Good luck to you.'

"'The same to you,' I said automatically. The two brats gave me a
withering look of scorn, apparently for expressing such impossible
sentiments, and then all three Monahans disappeared."

Captain Hannah took another whiff of rhial and then stared at the
beaker broodingly.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well," I asked. "Did you get the whale to Penguin? And was the Prinkip
pleased? Or did you just sit around and drink rhial until your ship
popped back to its normal size?"

"Oh, I couldn't pass up a chance like that," he said. "I delivered the
whale all right. She turned out to be gravid, too. I seem to make a
habit out of picking up pregnant cargoes. The Prinkip was very pleased,
and gave me a bonus.

"Then _Delta Crucis_ went back to being herself again. And I found this
note, along with a small gift, in the Control room." He fished a sheet
of paper out of the breast pocket of his blue uniform coat and passed
it across the table to me.

It was an unsigned letter written in a beautiful flowing script. It
said:

    My dear Captain Hannah:

    Congratulations to you on the success of your venture. All seems
    to have worked out well for you.

    For three Monahans, things were less pleasant. For a considerable
    period of time they experienced difficulty in sitting down in
    comfort.

    You are welcome at any time to pay a return visit to our remote
    sector of space and reestablish your acquaintance with the Adepts.

    It is not beyond the bounds of possibilities that Normals can be
    taught to demonstrate our Psionic abilities.

    Until you return then,

    Farewell!

The note was unsigned.

"Well," I said, "You are going to take them up on it, aren't you? This
is a chance in a lifetime. In a hundred lifetimes--it's a chance in a
million years. What are you waiting for, man?"

Captain Hannah shook his head. "I don't know," he said. "But does that
note sound as if it had been written by a mature Adept--by, say, the
father of those boys?

"Doesn't it seem more like something written by a teenage boy? Or even
by a precocious nine-year-old?"

"Well, what of it?" I asked. "Provided that it gets you back there, so
that you will have the chance of talking with the father?"

"I'm afraid that one or more of the Monahan children may hold a grudge
against me. After all, I apparently did cause the whole tribe of them
considerable humiliation and pain, in the end. If they want to get
even, they have a lot of power--whatever narking and giffling may be.
So here's a present for you, and I advise you to throw it away, even if
I can't bring myself to do so."

Captain Hannah slammed something down on the table, jammed his head,
and stalked out of the bar.

I picked up his gift and examined it. It was a small bottle. On the tag
attached to it, neatly and mockingly printed, were the words, "DRINK
ME."

I stared at it for a long time, thinking of opportunity--and of snarks
and of boojums.

END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of When You Giffle, by L.J. Stecher

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHEN YOU GIFFLE ***

***** This file should be named 52035.txt or 52035.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/2/0/3/52035/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

